Update Kubernetes Operator documentation [IPE-186][IPE-158] (#488)
hashicorp/terraform-docs-common: website/docs/cloud-docs/integrations/kubernetes/index.mdx

---
page_title: Terraform Cloud Operator for Kubernetes 
description: >-
  Terraform Cloud Operator allows you to provision infrastructure directly from
  the Kubernetes control plane.
---

# Terraform Cloud Operator for Kubernetes Overview

> HashiCorp Terraform Cloud customers can integrate with Kubernetes using the official [Terraform Cloud Operator for Kubernetes](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-k8s) to provision infrastructure internal or external to the Kubernetes cluster directly from the Kubernetes control plane.  Using the Terraform Cloud Operator for Kubernetes' CustomResourceDefinition (CRD), users can dynamically create Terraform Cloud workspaces using a Terraform configuration from a git repository or from the [Terraform Registry](https://registry.terraform.io/), populate variables, and perform Terraform runs to provision infrastructure.

Reviewer: `[Terraform Cloud Operator for Kubernetes](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-k8s)` refers to v1, do we want to update this link to v2 and mention v1 as legacy?

Author: Good catch! Updated.

> ## Key benefits

Author: @arybolovlev I think this is the last section we need some info for, just some features to point out that change from v1 to v2

Reviewer: We partially have this covered in the FAQ: https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-cloud-operator/blob/main/docs/faq.md#general-questions but I think more detailed information will be also in the  blog post. If that is OK, could we wait for a few more days to finalize it and then sync here?

Reviewer: **What’s new in version 2 of the Terraform Cloud Operator**

The Terraform Cloud Operator has undergone a transformative upgrade from v1 to v2, introducing features that significantly enhance performance, flexibility, and user experience.

- **Flexible resource management:** The Operator now features multiple custom resources each with separate controllers for different Terraform Cloud resources. This provides additional flexibility and the ability to manage more custom resources concurrently, significantly improving performance for large-scale deployments.

- **Namespace management:** The introduction of the --namespace option, allowing users to tailor the Operator’s watch scope to specific namespaces, enabling more fine-grained resource management as setups grow.

- **Configurable synchronization:** With the new --sync-period, synchronization between custom resources and Terraform Cloud is faster than ever, ensuring timely updates and smoother operations.

The Terraform Cloud Operator v2 offers several improvements over v1, such as:

> - Newer TODO

Author: My bad! Forgot to push these changes :)

- Better
- Faster

> ## Supported Terraform Cloud Features

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Supported Terraform Cloud features
```

> The Terraform Cloud Operator for Kubernetes allows you to create agent pools, deploy modules, and manage workspaces through Kubernetes controllers. These controllers enable you to automate and manage Terraform Cloud resources using custom resources in Kubernetes.

Author: I think the goal of this sentence is to let the reader knows that the operator doesn't support every possible function of Terraform Cloud, such as managing the registry, projects, etc.

> The Terraform Cloud Operator for Kubernetes allows you to create agent pools, deploy modules, and manage workspaces through Kubernetes controllers. These controllers enable you to automate and manage Terraform Cloud resources using custom resources in Kubernetes.

Reviewer 2: That makes sense to me!

### Agent pool

Agent pools in Terraform Cloud manage the execution environment for Terraform runs. The Terraform Cloud Operator allows you to create and manage agent pools as part of your Kubernetes infrastructure.

The following example creates a new agent pool with the name `agent-pool-development` and generates an agent token with the name `token-red`.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: app.terraform.io/v1alpha2
kind: AgentPool
metadata:
  name: this
spec:
  organization: kubernetes-operator
  token:
    secretKeyRef:
      name: tfc-operator
      key: token
  name: agent-pool-development
  agentTokens:
    - name: token-red
```

> The operator stores `token-red` agent token in a Kubernetes secret named TODO.

Author: @arybolovlev I'm having a hard time remembering what the secret will be named. Do you know what the secret name would be in this example? Thanks!

Reviewer: In this example it will be `this-agent-pool`, where `this` is `metadata.name` value and `agent-pool` is the pre-defined value in our code.

Refer to the [agent pool API reference](/terraform/cloud-docs/integrations/kubernetes/api-reference#agentpool) for complete documentation of the `AgentPool` specification.

### Module

The `Module` controller enforces an [API-driven Run workflow](/terraform/cloud-docs/run/api) and enables the deployment of Terraform modules within various workspaces as needed.

The following example deploys version `1.0.0` of the `hashicorp/module/random` module in the `workspace-name` workspace.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: app.terraform.io/v1alpha2
kind: Module
metadata:
  name: my-module
spec:
  organization: kubernetes-operator
  token:
    secretKeyRef:
      name: tfc-operator
      key: token
  module:
    source: hashicorp/module/random
    version: 1.0.0
  workspace:
    name: workspace-name
  variables:
  - name: string_length
  outputs:
  - name: random_string
```

> The operator passes the `string_length` variable that exists in the workspace to the module and stores the `random_string` outputs as either a Kubernetes secret or a ConfigMap. If the output is marked as "sensitive", it is stored as a Kubernetes secret, otherwise it is stored as a ConfigMap. The variables need to be accessible within the workspace as a workspace variable, workspace variable set, or project variable set.

Reviewer 2: I assume the workspace is marking the variable as "sensitive"? Suggestion for active following that assumption below: 
```suggestion
The operator passes the workspace's `string_length` variable to the module and stores the `random_string` outputs as either a Kubernetes secret or a ConfigMap. If the workspace marks the output as "sensitive", the operator stores the `random_string` as a Kubernetes secret; otherwise, the operator stores it as a ConfigMap. The variables must be accessible within the workspace as a workspace variable, workspace variable set, or project variable set.
```

> Refer to the [module API reference](/terraform/cloud-docs/integrations/kubernetes/api-reference#module) for complete documentation of the `Module` specification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Refer to the [module API reference](/terraform/cloud-docs/integrations/kubernetes/api-reference#module) for the complete `Module` specification.
```

### Workspace

> Workspaces in Terraform Cloud are used to organize and manage Terraform configurations. The Terraform Cloud Operator allows you to create, configure, and manage workspaces directly from Kubernetes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Terraform Cloud workspaces organize and manage Terraform configurations. The Terraform Cloud Operator for Kubernetes allows you to create, configure, and manage workspaces directly from Kubernetes.
```

> The following example creates a new workspace named `us-west-development` configured to use Terraform version `1.6.2`. This workspace has two variables, `nodes` and `rds-secret`. The variable `rds-secret` is treated as sensitive, and the operator will read the value for the variable from a Kubernetes secret named `us-west-development-secrets`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example creates a new workspace named `us-west-development` configured to use Terraform version `1.6.2`. This workspace has two variables, `nodes` and `rds-secret`. The variable `rds-secret` is treated as sensitive, and the operator reads the value for the variable from a Kubernetes secret named `us-west-development-secrets`.
```

```yaml
---
apiVersion: app.terraform.io/v1alpha2
kind: Workspace
metadata:
  name: us-west-development
spec:
  organization: kubernetes-operator
  token:
    secretKeyRef:
      name: tfc-operator
      key: token
  name: us-west-development
  description: US West development workspace
  terraformVersion: 1.6.2
  applyMethod: auto
  agentPool:
    name: ap-us-west-development
  terraformVariables:
    - name: nodes
      value: 2
    - name: rds-secret
      sensitive: true
      valueFrom:
        secretKeyRef:
          name: us-west-development-secrets
          key: rds-secret
  runTasks:
    - name: rt-us-west-development
      stage: pre_plan
```

> In the above example, the `applyMethod` has the value of `auto`, so Terraform Cloud will automatically apply any changes to this workspace. The specification also configures the workspace to use the `ap-us-west-development` agent pool and run the `rt-us-west-development` run task at the `pre_plan` stage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the above example, the `applyMethod` has the value of `auto`, so Terraform Cloud automatically applies any changes to this workspace. The specification also configures the workspace to use the `ap-us-west-development` agent pool and run the `rt-us-west-development` run task at the `pre_plan` stage.
```

> The operator will store the value of the workspace outputs as Kubernetes secrets or ConfigMaps. If the outputs are marked as "sensitive", they are stored as Kubernetes secrets, otherwise they are stored as ConfigMaps.

Reviewer 2: Since this is a pattern you've done twice, is this a good practice for folks to follow? Maybe we could explicitly state that? 

```suggestion
The operator stores the value of the workspace outputs as Kubernetes secrets or ConfigMaps. If the outputs are marked as "sensitive", they are stored as Kubernetes secrets, otherwise they are stored as ConfigMaps.
```

> -> **NOTE**: The operator will roll back any external modifications made to the workspace to match the state specified in the custom resource definition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-> **NOTE**: The operator rolls back any external modifications made to the workspace to match the state specified in the custom resource definition.
```

Reviewer 2: Can we add some guidance stating how a user can avoid this? Something like " to avoid rollbacks, don't do XZY"?

> Refer to the [workspace API reference](/terraform/cloud-docs/integrations/kubernetes/api-reference#workspace) for complete documentation of the `Workspace` specification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Refer to the [workspace API reference](/terraform/cloud-docs/integrations/kubernetes/api-reference#workspace) for the complete `Workspace` specification.
```

---
page_title: Terraform Cloud Operator for Kubernetes 
description: >-
  Terraform Cloud Operator allows you to provision infrastructure directly from
  the Kubernetes control plane.
---

# Terraform Cloud Operator for Kubernetes Overview

The [Terraform Cloud Operator for Kubernetes](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-cloud-operator) allows you to manage Terraform Cloud resources with Kubernetes custom resources. You can provision infrastructure internal or external to your Kubernetes cluster directly from the Kubernetes control plane. 

> The Terraform Cloud Operator for Kubernetes' CustomResourceDefinitions (CRD) allow you to dynamically create Terraform Cloud workspaces using Terraform configuration from a git repository or the [Terraform Registry](https://registry.terraform.io/), populate variables, and provision infrastructure with Terraform runs.

Author: @arybolovlev I actually missed this when I went through these docs, is this something you can provide some context on? Thanks!

> The Terraform Cloud Operator for Kubernetes' CustomResourceDefinitions (CRD) allow you to dynamically create Terraform Cloud workspaces using Terraform configuration from a git repository or the [Terraform Registry](https://registry.terraform.io/), populate variables, and provision infrastructure with Terraform runs.

Author: Oh, looking at the API docs, it looks like when you create a Module with the operator, you can either configure the [module source](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/modules/sources#github) to pull from the registry or from github like you can in Terraform configuration? Are these the only two module sources supported?

> The Terraform Cloud Operator for Kubernetes' CustomResourceDefinitions (CRD) allow you to dynamically create Terraform Cloud workspaces using Terraform configuration from a git repository or the [Terraform Registry](https://registry.terraform.io/), populate variables, and provision infrastructure with Terraform runs.

Author: Verified, you can also specify git repos for module sources with the operator. I'll tweak this wording a it to clarify.

---
page_title: Terraform Cloud Operator for Kubernetes 
description: >-
  Terraform Cloud Operator allows you to provision infrastructure directly from
  the Kubernetes control plane.
---

> # Terraform Cloud Operator for Kubernetes Overview

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Terraform Cloud Operator for Kubernetes overview
```

## Key benefits

The Terraform Cloud Operator v2 offers several improvements over v1:

- **Flexible resource management**: The operator now features multiple custom resources, each with separate controllers for different Terraform Cloud resources. This provides additional flexibility and the ability to manage more custom resources concurrently, significantly improving performance for large-scale deployments.

- **Namespace management**: The `--namespace` option allows you to tailor the operator's watch scope to specific namespaces, which enables more fine-grained resource management.

- **Configurable synchronization**: The `--sync-period` option allows you to configure the synchronization frequency between custom resources and Terraform Cloud, ensuring timely updates and smoother operations.

## Supported Terraform Cloud features

The Terraform Cloud Operator for Kubernetes allows you to create agent pools, deploy modules, and manage workspaces through Kubernetes controllers. These controllers enable you to automate and manage Terraform Cloud resources using custom resources in Kubernetes.

### Agent pools

> Agent pools in Terraform Cloud manage the execution environment for Terraform runs. The Terraform Cloud Operator allows you to create and manage agent pools as part of your Kubernetes infrastructure.

Reviewer 3: i'm reading the last sentence as the pools becoming part of the k8s infra - is that correct?

Author: Yup, that's correct! The agent get's spun up as a pod in the Kubernetes cluster and automatically connect to Terraform Cloud

<CodeBlockConfig highlight="17-23">

```yaml
---
apiVersion: app.terraform.io/v1alpha2
kind: AgentPool
metadata:
  name: this
spec:
  organization: kubernetes-operator
  token:
    secretKeyRef:
      name: tfc-operator
      key: token
  name: agent-pool-development
  agentTokens:
  - name: token-red
  agentDeployment:
   replicas: 1
  autoscaling:
    targetWorkspaces:
    - name: us-west-development
    - id: ws-NUVHA9feCXzAmPHx
    - wildcardName: eu-development-*
    minReplicas: 1
    maxReplicas: 3
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

In the above example, the operator ensures that at least one agent pod is continuously running and dynamically scales the number of pods up to a maximum of three based on the workload or resource demand. The operator then monitors resource demands by observing the load of the designated workspaces specified by the `name`, `id`, or `wildcardName` patterns. When the workload decreases, the operator downscales the number of agent pods.

Refer to the [agent pool API reference](/terraform/cloud-docs/integrations/kubernetes/api-reference#agentpool) for the complete `AgentPool` specification.

### Module

> The `Module` controller enforces an [API-driven Run workflow](/terraform/cloud-docs/run/api) and enables the deployment of Terraform modules within various workspaces as needed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `Module` controller enforces an [API-driven Run workflow](/terraform/cloud-docs/run/api) and lets you deploy Terraform modules within workspaces.
```

The following example deploys version `1.0.0` of the `hashicorp/module/random` module in the `workspace-name` workspace.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: app.terraform.io/v1alpha2
kind: Module
metadata:
  name: my-module
spec:
  organization: kubernetes-operator
  token:
    secretKeyRef:
      name: tfc-operator
      key: token
  module:
    source: hashicorp/module/random
    version: 1.0.0
  workspace:
    name: workspace-name
  variables:
  - name: string_length
  outputs:
  - name: random_string
```

> The operator passes the workspace's `string_length` variable to the module and stores the `random_string` outputs as either a Kubernetes secret or a ConfigMap. If the workspace marks the output as "sensitive", the operator stores the `random_string` as a Kubernetes secret; otherwise, the operator stores it as a ConfigMap. The variables must be accessible within the workspace as a workspace variable, workspace variable set, or project variable set.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The operator passes the workspace's `string_length` variable to the module and stores the `random_string` outputs as either a Kubernetes secret or a ConfigMap. If the workspace marks the output as `sensitive`, the operator stores the `random_string` as a Kubernetes secret; otherwise, the operator stores it as a ConfigMap. The variables must be accessible within the workspace as a workspace variable, workspace variable set, or project variable set.
```

Refer to the [module API reference](/terraform/cloud-docs/integrations/kubernetes/api-reference#module) for the complete `Module` specification.

### Workspace

Terraform Cloud workspaces organize and manage Terraform configurations. The Terraform Cloud Operator for Kubernetes allows you to create, configure, and manage workspaces directly from Kubernetes.

> The following example creates a new workspace named `us-west-development` configured to use Terraform version `1.6.2`. This workspace has two variables, `nodes` and `rds-secret`. The variable `rds-secret` is treated as sensitive, and the operator reads the value for the variable from a Kubernetes secret named `us-west-development-secrets`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example creates a new workspace named `us-west-development`, configured to use Terraform version `1.6.2`. This workspace has two variables, `nodes` and `rds-secret`. The variable `rds-secret` is treated as sensitive, and the operator reads the value for the variable from a Kubernetes secret named `us-west-development-secrets`.
```

```yaml
---
apiVersion: app.terraform.io/v1alpha2
kind: Workspace
metadata:
  name: us-west-development
spec:
  organization: kubernetes-operator
  token:
    secretKeyRef:
      name: tfc-operator
      key: token
  name: us-west-development
  description: US West development workspace
  terraformVersion: 1.6.2
  applyMethod: auto
  agentPool:
    name: ap-us-west-development
  terraformVariables:
    - name: nodes
      value: 2
    - name: rds-secret
      sensitive: true
      valueFrom:
        secretKeyRef:
          name: us-west-development-secrets
          key: rds-secret
  runTasks:
    - name: rt-us-west-development
      stage: pre_plan
```

In the above example, the `applyMethod` has the value of `auto`, so Terraform Cloud automatically applies any changes to this workspace. The specification also configures the workspace to use the `ap-us-west-development` agent pool and run the `rt-us-west-development` run task at the `pre_plan` stage.

> The operator stores the value of the workspace outputs as Kubernetes secrets or ConfigMaps. If the outputs are marked as "sensitive", they are stored as Kubernetes secrets, otherwise they are stored as ConfigMaps.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The operator stores the value of the workspace outputs as Kubernetes secrets or ConfigMaps. If the outputs are marked as `sensitive`, they are stored as Kubernetes secrets, otherwise they are stored as ConfigMaps.
```

> -> **NOTE**: The operator rolls back any external modifications made to the workspace to match the state specified in the custom resource definition.

Reviewer 3: is this based on the sync period? 
```suggestion
-> **Note**: The operator rolls back any external modifications made to the workspace to match the state specified in the custom resource definition.
```
